So let's go ahead and start looking at how to insert points into our KD-tree.
Let's do this by inserting just one point So we have
an empty tree and we're going to go ahead and insert a single-point into our tree.
Well, this first point is going to become the root of our binary tree.
Then consecutive points will flow either to the left or the right of this root,
they'll become either the left child or the right child and they will do this
based on a comparison and that comparison
for that first is going to be based on the X-value.
So we're going to look at the X value for the root.
We're going to have a new point and we're going to have that new point's X-value,
and if that new points X value is less than the roots X value,
it's going to flow to the left.
If we have that new point and its X value is greater than the roots X value,
it's going to flow to the right.
So let's go ahead and insert a point,
let's insert negative 6.27,
that's the first point that we're inserting into a tree.
This is what it visually looks like.
We have our point and it's inserted in space and now any points that come into it later
on will either branch off to the left section or off to the right section.
They'll do that based on the X-value.
So let's go ahead and insert a second.
Now, we're going to insert the point - negative 6.3, 8.4.
Well, negative 6.3 is less than negative 6.2,
the roots of that X value.
So it's going to branch off to the left.
Let's go ahead and see what that looks like.
Now, so this point,
it's a negative 6.3 is just a little bit less than negative 6.2.
So it's just a little bit off to the left here.. Now,
this point is going to spatially split on the Y dimension.
So when we have a point that travels and visits this second point now,
it's going to figure out where to branch off next based on looking at the Y comparison
and seeing if it's Y value is greater than or less than this point's Y-value.
We have this red line showing that that is splitting the Y dimension now.
Let's insert two more points into our tree.
Let's go ahead and insert negative 5.2,
7.1 and negative 5.7,
6.3 into our tree.
Now, the tree has a depth of two,
and we'll visually see that here in a second.
What that means is we're alternating between doing X splits and Y splits.
It really depends on the depth of our tree.
So if the depth is even,
we do an X split.
If it's odd, we do a Y split.
So this negative 5.7, 6.3 since is.
=P]=[a depth of two is going to now again split the X region.
So that X and Y split alternates between the depth of the tree.
This is what that looks like.
Now, we have four points in our tree and we had this new point come
in and its X value is greater so it went off to this X region and then it split the Y.
Then, we have this new point come in and it's looking at
this node as for comparison and it's Y-value is less.
So it comes into the left and it's at a depth of two.
So it's going to split the X region again.
We had two blue lines here.
Let's visually look at what this binary tree looks like.
So here's what this tree looks like after inserting
these four points in the order that we were just talking about.
So here's our root.
Here's the left child of root,
here's a right child of the root,
and then that last point became the left child of this node here.